# NRA_Analysis

In the 6 months prior to the Presidential Election in November of 2016, how do the most popular words in the original tweets compare to the most popular words in the retweets? Our motivation behind investigating this question was to see which topics the IRA promulgated on Twitter in the months leading up to the 2016 Presidential Election, or which tweets accumulated the most attention. The data set that we used was the set of 10 million tweets released by Twitter that were tweeted by accounts associated with the IRA.    
In order to answer this question, we first created two separate tables, one with original tweets and the other with retweets. Then we found the most common words for each type of tweets, filtering out the words that were shorter than 5 characters in order to focus on substantial content. After finding lists of the most used words, we joined the two tables. For the words that are popular in both original tweets and retweets, we calculated the ratio of retweets to original. In other words, we found how often each word was retweeted relative to how much it was tweeted in the original posts. Our resulting table is as follows:  
Our main takeaway was that in the 6 months leading up to the election, Donald Trump was the one president that appeared in the top 3 most used words with count of 6457, whereas Hillary Clinton only made the top 20 with count of 3584. Further, we noticed that in the retweets during those 6 months, both Trump and Hillary ranked higher in frequency in comparison to original tweets. This shows that many accounts retweeted content involving the candidates more frequently than they retweeted other content. We also compared the ratios of retweets to tweets that the candidates were mentioned in, and although Trump appeared in more tweets, Hillary was retweeted at a higher rate than Trump was. Hillary’s retweet-tweet ratio was 2.72 while Trump’s was 2.04. In other words, every tweet that mentions Hillary is retweeted 2.71 times, on average; and every tweet that mentions Trump is only retweeted 2.04 times, on average. A possible justification that would explain these observations is that much of the rhetoric that Trump used throughout his campaign slandered Hilliary Clinton, through the use of phrases such as “Crooked Hillary.” These phrases were potentially pushed by the IRA through retweeting to support Trump.    
IRA’s support for Trump is also implied by the topics that they chose to magnify. Other than the candidates’ names, some key words include “woman,” “police,” “killed,” and “blacklivesmatter.” IRA was likely targeting women and African Americans through the discussion of gender equality and Black rights in order to speak to the typically left-leaning voters. Another interesting observation is that buzzwords about the Black Lives Matter movement such as “police” and “blacklivesmatter” had a lower retweet-tweet ratio in comparison to buzzwords directly related to the presidential election. Although the words associated with the Black Lives Matter movement had many original tweets, they did not receive as many retweets. For example, the word blacklivesmatter had a tweet to retweet ratio of 0.461; this means that, on average, a retweet occurs only after more than 2 original posts containing those words. One explanation is that IRA was using the leverage from retweets to influence the public view on the presidential election at this time. Topics involving the election were promoted more in comparison to the topics that were hot political issues but not directly related to the election.  
In conclusion, our analysis of the data shows us that many popular words seen in the original tweets are also popular in retweets. However, buzzwords involving the presidential election are retweeted at a higher volume than other words that show up in original tweets. A possible reason for this could be that the IRA was promoting topics involving the presidential election in order to skew the public’s view on certain issues. It seems like the IRA strategically used the power of Twitter as a social platform, through tweeting and retweeting specific content, to aggravate the divisions within the nation by drawing more attention to certain issues and to influence the U.S. election in 2016.
